README.md, before:

# eco-planner
A tool intended to help planning actions to achieve local environmental goals

## Copyright
Upstream repository is located [here](https://github.com/Leon-Loov/eco-planner) and is copyright of Leon Lööv and Axel Gustav Schnürer. It is licensed under the MIT license.

**This fork, on the other hand, is copyright of Sustainable Action Foundation, all rights reserved.**

For the sake of simplicity, we bumped the version number to 0.7.0. All versions <0.7.0 are copyright of Leon Lööv and Axel Gustav Schnürer while the additions in versions >=0.7.0 are copyright of Sustainable Action Foundation.

## Setup
This tool requires the following environment variables to be set:
- `IRON_SESSION_PASSWORD`: Should be a string at least 32 characters long. This is used to encrypt the session cookie from the Iron Session library.
- `DATABASE_URL`: Should be a connection string to a database. This is used by Prisma to connect to the database. The default configuration expects a MySQL/MariaDB database but this can be changed in the `prisma/schema.prisma` file.
- `MAIL_HOST`: The SMTP host to use for sending emails.
- `MAIL_USER`: The username to use when connecting to the SMTP host.
- `MAIL_PASSWORD`: The password to use when connecting to the SMTP host.
  - These `MAIL_`-variables are used in `src/mailClient.ts` to send emails using Nodemailer. Depending on how your SMTP host is set up, you might need to change the port and security settings as well as the authMethod.
  - Yau could also use other transports than SMTP, see [the Nodemailer site](https://www.nodemailer.com/transports/) for more information.

If you want to target a different type of database, you might want to remove the existing `prisma/migrations` folder and start from scratch with `yarn prisma migrate dev --create-only` to generate new migration files after changing the `provider` field in the prisma schema file.

1. Install dependencies with `yarn install`
2. If you're setting up the database for the first time (for example, a clean development database), run `yarn prisma migrate deploy` to apply the existing migrations to the database, or `yarn prisma migrate dev` if you do not have any migration files.
    - The recommended development database is using the [MySQL Installer](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/) to set up MySQL Workbench and MySQL Server for development.

Now you should be able to run the app with `yarn dev` and access it at http://localhost:3000 or build it with `yarn build` and run it with `yarn start`.

Please run `git update-index --skip-worktree src/lib/LEAPList.json` and `git update-index --skip-worktree src/lib/dataSeriesDataFieldNames.json` to prevent git from tracking changes to the LEAPList.json and dataSeriesDataFieldNames.json file as these files are locally regenerated at build time.
If you for some reason need to update the default version of either file, run `git update-index --no-skip-worktree FILEPATH` to allow git to track changes to the file again.

Our current server also skips tracking changes to the `next.config.mjs` file, so if you need to change the config, run `git update-index --no-skip-worktree next.config.mjs` on the server or update the file there manually.

## Backend notes
We use the function unstable_cache from Next.js, which currently returns cached `Date`s in stringified form (See this [GitHub issue](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/51613)). Remember to always create a `new Date()` from the date value whenever you use one, until this problem is fixed.

## Database structure
See image, or refer to [schema.prisma](/prisma/schema.prisma) for the full, up-to-date schema.
![Database Schema](/public/images/eco-planner.png "Database Schema")

## E2E Testing 


1. Create file cypress.env.json and add enviroment variables  

```json
{
    "user_name": "",
    "user_password": "",
    "meta_roadmap_id": "",
    "roadmap_id": "",
    "goal_id": "",
    "action_id": ""
}
```

2. Add Aditional enviroment variables in the .env file to support uploading test results to PocketBase

```
POCKETBASE_INSTANCE=''
POCKETBASE_USER=''
POCKETBASE_PASSWORD=''
```

3. Setup and run tests using `yarn cypress open`

4. Run tests headless in a cli using: `yarn run e2e:chrome`

## Components

### Generic components
Generic components are components whose functionality is not tied to this project. They are independently redistributable and function on their own within other next.js projects without any dependancies. Examples include the [attributedImage.tsx component](/src/components/images/attributedImage.tsx) or the [header.tsx](/src/components/header/header.tsx) component. 

All generic components are located within the [generic folder.](/src/components/generic)

### Project specific components
Project specific components are located directly under the [components folder.](/src/components/) Theese are components which are dependent on this projects structure in order to function. This may include files such as [goals.tsx](/src/components/tables/goals.tsx) which are dependant on the `Roadmap` type.

***Component folder structure***
```
└── components/
    ├── projectSpecificComponent/
    │   ├── projectSpecificComponent.tsx
    │   └── projectSpecificComponent.module.css
    └── generic/
        ├── genericComponent/
        │   ├── genericComponent.tsx
        │   └── genericComponent.module.css
        └── GenericComponentGroup/
            ├── genericComponent1
            ├── genericComponent2
            ├── genericComponent3
            └── genericComponentGroup.module.css
```

## CSS

There are 3 different ways of writing css for this project: [Semantic Style Sheets](#semanticstylesheets), [CSS Modules](#cssmodules) and [Global CSS](#globalcss). 

> **<span style="color:#4169E1;">🛈</span> Note**
>
> Global CSS and Semantic Style Sheets use kebab-case but CSS Modules use camelCase.

<div id="semanticstylesheets"></div>

### Semantic Style Sheets 
This project uses a custom made version of [Semantic Style Sheets v.0.4.0](https://github.com/Axelgustavschnurer/semantic-style-sheets) to add commonly used utility classes. The code for this can be located within [/src/styles/utility.css.](/src/styles/utility.css) 

<TODO remove this and replace with site docs when those are added >

<div id="cssmodules"></div>

### CSS modules
In some areas there is a larger requirement to have more complicated styling, which usually isn't suitable for [Semantic Style Sheets](https://github.com/Axelgustavschnurer/semantic-style-sheets). For this usecase we define custom classes within [CSS modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules). A page, component or group of components should have an accompanying css module file for this case. The CSS module stylesheet should be named after the file or group of files, which it belongs to.

> **<span style="color:#4169E1;">🛈</span> Note**
>
> CSS modules use camelCase instead of kebab-case.

#### Setup CSS module
1. Create file `component.tsx`
```jsx
export default function Component() {
    return (
        <p>Hello World!<p>
    )
}
```

2. Create file `component.module.css`
```css
.componentStyling {
    color: red;
}
```
3. Import `component.module.css` to `component.tsx`
```jsx
import styles from './component.module.css'

export default function Component() {
    return (
        <p>Hello World!<p>
    )
}
``` 

4. Add the styling to the `component.tsx` component 

```jsx
import styles from './styles.module.css'

export default function Component() {
    return (
        <p className={styles.componentStyling}>Hello World!<p>
    )
}
``` 

<div id="globalcss"></div>

### Global CSS

> **<span style="color:red;">⚠</span> Warning**
>
> *Using global styling often leads to css files which are difficult to read and maintain. It may also cause specificity problems. Ensure that your decision to use global styling is well thought through.*

This project contains a [global.css](/src/styles/global.css) file to style  elements which should have a consistent appearance across the application. This may for example include buttons or forms. The file also contains variables for colors, contained within the css `:root{}` element.

## Styling

### Color Palette
![Color Palette](/public/images/palette.png "Color Palette")

Commit message:

Add licensing information (#24)
and update package.json with additional information

README.md, after:

# eco-planner
A tool intended to help planning actions to achieve local environmental goals

## Copyright
Copyright (C) 2023-2025 Sustainable Action Foundation
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation, version 3.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU Affero General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License along with this program. If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

## Setup
This tool requires the following environment variables to be set:
- `IRON_SESSION_PASSWORD`: Should be a string at least 32 characters long. This is used to encrypt the session cookie from the Iron Session library.
- `DATABASE_URL`: Should be a connection string to a database. This is used by Prisma to connect to the database. The default configuration expects a MySQL/MariaDB database but this can be changed in the `prisma/schema.prisma` file.
- `MAIL_HOST`: The SMTP host to use for sending emails.
- `MAIL_USER`: The username to use when connecting to the SMTP host.
- `MAIL_PASSWORD`: The password to use when connecting to the SMTP host.
  - These `MAIL_`-variables are used in `src/mailClient.ts` to send emails using Nodemailer. Depending on how your SMTP host is set up, you might need to change the port and security settings as well as the authMethod.
  - Yau could also use other transports than SMTP, see [the Nodemailer site](https://www.nodemailer.com/transports/) for more information.

If you want to target a different type of database, you might want to remove the existing `prisma/migrations` folder and start from scratch with `yarn prisma migrate dev --create-only` to generate new migration files after changing the `provider` field in the prisma schema file.

1. Install dependencies with `yarn install`
2. If you're setting up the database for the first time (for example, a clean development database), run `yarn prisma migrate deploy` to apply the existing migrations to the database, or `yarn prisma migrate dev` if you do not have any migration files.
    - The recommended development database is using the [MySQL Installer](https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/installer/) to set up MySQL Workbench and MySQL Server for development.

Now you should be able to run the app with `yarn dev` and access it at http://localhost:3000 or build it with `yarn build` and run it with `yarn start`.

Please run `git update-index --skip-worktree src/lib/LEAPList.json` and `git update-index --skip-worktree src/lib/dataSeriesDataFieldNames.json` to prevent git from tracking changes to the LEAPList.json and dataSeriesDataFieldNames.json file as these files are locally regenerated at build time.
If you for some reason need to update the default version of either file, run `git update-index --no-skip-worktree FILEPATH` to allow git to track changes to the file again.

Our current server also skips tracking changes to the `next.config.mjs` file, so if you need to change the config, run `git update-index --no-skip-worktree next.config.mjs` on the server or update the file there manually.

## Backend notes
We use the function unstable_cache from Next.js, which currently returns cached `Date`s in stringified form (See this [GitHub issue](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/issues/51613)). Remember to always create a `new Date()` from the date value whenever you use one, until this problem is fixed.

## Database structure
See image, or refer to [schema.prisma](/prisma/schema.prisma) for the full, up-to-date schema.
![Database Schema](/public/images/eco-planner.png "Database Schema")

## E2E Testing 


1. Create file cypress.env.json and add enviroment variables  

```json
{
    "user_name": "",
    "user_password": "",
    "meta_roadmap_id": "",
    "roadmap_id": "",
    "goal_id": "",
    "action_id": ""
}
```

2. Add Aditional enviroment variables in the .env file to support uploading test results to PocketBase

```
POCKETBASE_INSTANCE=''
POCKETBASE_USER=''
POCKETBASE_PASSWORD=''
```

3. Setup and run tests using `yarn cypress open`

4. Run tests headless in a cli using: `yarn run e2e:chrome`

## Components

### Generic components
Generic components are components whose functionality is not tied to this project. They are independently redistributable and function on their own within other next.js projects without any dependancies. Examples include the [attributedImage.tsx component](/src/components/images/attributedImage.tsx) or the [header.tsx](/src/components/header/header.tsx) component. 

All generic components are located within the [generic folder.](/src/components/generic)

### Project specific components
Project specific components are located directly under the [components folder.](/src/components/) Theese are components which are dependent on this projects structure in order to function. This may include files such as [goals.tsx](/src/components/tables/goals.tsx) which are dependant on the `Roadmap` type.

***Component folder structure***
```
└── components/
    ├── projectSpecificComponent/
    │   ├── projectSpecificComponent.tsx
    │   └── projectSpecificComponent.module.css
    └── generic/
        ├── genericComponent/
        │   ├── genericComponent.tsx
        │   └── genericComponent.module.css
        └── GenericComponentGroup/
            ├── genericComponent1
            ├── genericComponent2
            ├── genericComponent3
            └── genericComponentGroup.module.css
```

## CSS

There are 3 different ways of writing css for this project: [Semantic Style Sheets](#semanticstylesheets), [CSS Modules](#cssmodules) and [Global CSS](#globalcss). 

> **<span style="color:#4169E1;">🛈</span> Note**
>
> Global CSS and Semantic Style Sheets use kebab-case but CSS Modules use camelCase.

<div id="semanticstylesheets"></div>

### Semantic Style Sheets 
This project uses a custom made version of [Semantic Style Sheets v.0.4.0](https://github.com/Axelgustavschnurer/semantic-style-sheets) to add commonly used utility classes. The code for this can be located within [/src/styles/utility.css.](/src/styles/utility.css) 

<TODO remove this and replace with site docs when those are added >

<div id="cssmodules"></div>

### CSS modules
In some areas there is a larger requirement to have more complicated styling, which usually isn't suitable for [Semantic Style Sheets](https://github.com/Axelgustavschnurer/semantic-style-sheets). For this usecase we define custom classes within [CSS modules](https://github.com/css-modules/css-modules). A page, component or group of components should have an accompanying css module file for this case. The CSS module stylesheet should be named after the file or group of files, which it belongs to.

> **<span style="color:#4169E1;">🛈</span> Note**
>
> CSS modules use camelCase instead of kebab-case.

#### Setup CSS module
1. Create file `component.tsx`
```jsx
export default function Component() {
    return (
        <p>Hello World!<p>
    )
}
```

2. Create file `component.module.css`
```css
.componentStyling {
    color: red;
}
```
3. Import `component.module.css` to `component.tsx`
```jsx
import styles from './component.module.css'

export default function Component() {
    return (
        <p>Hello World!<p>
    )
}
``` 

4. Add the styling to the `component.tsx` component 

```jsx
import styles from './styles.module.css'

export default function Component() {
    return (
        <p className={styles.componentStyling}>Hello World!<p>
    )
}
``` 

<div id="globalcss"></div>

### Global CSS

> **<span style="color:red;">⚠</span> Warning**
>
> *Using global styling often leads to css files which are difficult to read and maintain. It may also cause specificity problems. Ensure that your decision to use global styling is well thought through.*

This project contains a [global.css](/src/styles/global.css) file to style  elements which should have a consistent appearance across the application. This may for example include buttons or forms. The file also contains variables for colors, contained within the css `:root{}` element.

## Styling

### Color Palette
![Color Palette](/public/images/palette.png "Color Palette")
